# Deepfakedetection
# Deepfake image detection using CNN
Deepfakes uses deep learning technique to artifice images and videos of a person that humans cannot differentiate them from the real one with the naked eye. This forged digital content, having the potential to change the truth and decay faith will deteriorate and can cause threat on a large scale and even in our daily lives. This leads to an urgent need for automated ways to detect these AI-generated fake images.
In this project work, I focus on the efforts towards the detection of deepfake and real images using convolutional neural networks (CNN) based deep learning technique. I have extracted and combined few images from an existing dataset from Kaggle, which had 70k real images from the Flickr dataset and 70k fake images generated by styleGAN. I employed a transfer learning technique called DenseNet. To classify the deepfake and real images DenseNet121 was fine-tuned on the given data set. The DenseNet121 is a pre-trained neural network technique primarily used for image recognition tasks. In a DenseNet architecture, each layer is connected directly with every other layer, hence the name Densely Connected Convolutional Network. The DenseNet is based on the convolution neural net (CNN) architecture.
I used the weights of pre-trained DenseNet, but I redefined the dimension of the last fully connected layer of DenseNet121 which consists of a dense layer of 512 units to fit the classification. The initial learning rate for the optimizer choices is set at 0.001. The ﬁnal output layer with sigmoid activation is used for deepfake classiﬁcation.
I hope that my research work will lend a hand to cybersecurity specialists to overcome deepfake based cybercrimes by accurately exposing the deepfake images.
